Now by default if you upload an app to the Google Play store or to the iOS App Store, you will get a
certain amount of app analytics that comes pre-built into those two platforms.
So this gives you some really basic data on for example how much you get in sales, how many sessions
there were, how many active devices have been using your app, how many crashes there are.
Which is always interesting and also where is your app mostly being used. And the idea is that you are
using the data that you acquire from your users to determine how best to update or modify your app so
that you can endear your app to more users or get more downloads.
So for example, you can see here that there's actually a lot of Swedes who are using this particular
app so maybe the next language to localize your app to will be Swedish.
But at the end of the day a lot of the data that you get from these native platforms are still very limited and
you want to have more data than this.
So then this is where app analytic tools come in.
And and one of my all time favorite tools is something called Flurry that was developed by Yahoo
surprisingly.
But the nice thing about Flurry is a) its free to use
and the second thing is that you can completely customize it, so you can track whatever it is that you
want.
So say if you want to see how many users actually progress through each of the levels i.e. how many
users do you drop
at each level of your game, then you can do that in Flurry.
r you can see how many users give up on inputting that data in your form, what is the percentage drop
off and you can do that again on Flurry.
You just have to use a little bit of code.
Now if you want something slightly simpler than that then there's another tool that does pretty much
the same thing called Mixpanel.
And again a lot of the basic features are free to use but Mixpanel makes a lot of things more intuitive
I would say them Flurry. But essentially the point is the same.
You're trying to track and see how users are interacting with your app so that you can infer if there are
problems within the user flow. For example maybe level 3 in your game is too hard and you see that
95% of people can't get past level 3 and that will tell you that you probably have to make level
3 slightly easier.
So essentially--
So essentially let the data guide your next versions and identify any problems that might be holding
you back on the app stores.
And that brings us to another point.
Both app stores will penalize apps that don't get updated regularly. So you can just upload an app and then
forget about it and hope that you'll keep getting revenue.
In fact on the Apple App Store, they're starting to delete some of the apps that haven't been updated
for a few years or no longer work on the new iOS versions.
So it's well worth a) monitoring how your users are interacting with your app.
Looking at the data as to whether if they're enjoying their experience, how long they're staying in the
app, how frequently are they coming back to the app and using this data to guide your development for
your next versions
in order to make it better and better and better.